Chapter 1

- The keyboard layout - 3 sections - starting consonants, vowels, ending consonants
- Steno order
- Overloading of keys and concepts - be aware that it exists, we will be learning as we go
- Asterisk key to overload strokes and for undo - we will be learning this right from the start

- Start with the first keys in steno order for each section, then add keys as we go
- We're going to be covering a number of different ideas in each section - mechanical skill and speed, concepts and steno theory,
phonetic alphabet and phonetic / linguistic theory, and pen steno. Pick and choose which ones you want to learn and don't 
feel bad about avoiding them - you can always go back and learn them later if you want to, I don't actually know if 
trying to tackle them all at once will be helpful or not.

I wrote this because I am interested in all of them and wanted to see if I help speed up and reinforce my learning of 
stenography by approaching it from a bunch of different angles. My impression of stenography education is that it
doesn't work very well and that it requires a very significant amount of time and effort to become useful as a 
replacement for traditional typing. I'm terrible at studying and practicing if I'm not extremely interested and 
engaged, and I'm hoping that this relatively uncommon approach to learning will make it easier to learn the theory 
and mechanical skills required for stenography.


One of the problems I ran into early on when trying to learn stenography is that there aren't 
so many hard and fast rules - I wanted something with one definitive way to write a word, where 
everything was consistent. I'm going to do my best to create enough of a base that it feels that way 
once we get to the additional sections - misstrokes, combinations ("is" and "to" became the "is to" stroke),
fingerspelling, prefix / suffix. Plus, by the time we get there, readers should be able to type enough 
of the normal words that they won't need to overly rely on them - though I will have to make sure there's enough
material there so that they can learn them until they are usable.


Starting Letters 

We're going to start with S-, T-, and F-, along with the * key. We're also going to focus only on full, recognizable words, and leave 
additional concepts until later - we are also going to try to learn only one way of typing each word, which will 
be the one that is most logical to me.
The theory behind this approach is to gradually build on the theory and understanding while building
mechanical speed across the entire keyboard, and hopefully the missing concepts will be easy to pick up both mentally and physically.
My original approach was trying to learn fingerspelling first and develop a kind of hybrid learning mode
to be able to use steno full time as soon as possible, but it was such a struggle that I had trouble sustaining
it. My hope with this is that it will be easier to spend smaller blocks of time on each small addition across 
a few dimensions of learning with daily reading and practice. With a mix of practice and learning, my goal 
is to have practiced enough to type at least 30WPM across the whole keyboard at the same time I have 
learned the theory well enough to use it in practice - then I can start using stenography full time as a 
replacement for my existing keyboard as quick as possible.


Linguistics

Orthography - The system of rules that apply when writing a language in order for readers to connect spelling, sound, and meaning. [4]

Phonology - The system of rules that apply when speech sounds are put together to form words and meaning. 

Grapheme - The smallest unit of writing within a specific language.

Morpheme - The smallest segment of a word that expresses a meaning or grammatical property by itself. [2]

Phone - A distinct speech sound or gesture, without reference to meaning or language.

Phoneme - A group of speech sounds that are considered identical within a specific language.


References 
[1] https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/linguistics-and-philosophy/24-900-introduction-to-linguistics-fall-2012/lecture-summaries/
[2] https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/linguistics-and-philosophy/24-900-introduction-to-linguistics-fall-2012/lecture-summaries/MIT24_900F12_Morphology.pdf
[3] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phoneme
[4] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/English_orthography